Ariel edits (#14)
greenelab/iscb-diversity-manuscript: content/10.methods.md

### Estimation of Nationality

> We also applied the Python package `ethnicolr` to estimate race and ethnicity, as developed by Sood and Laohaprapanon. [@arxiv:1805.02109]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To complement wru's race and ethnicity estimation, we applied the Python package `ethnicolr` developed by Sood and Laohaprapanon [@arxiv:1805.02109].
```

> `ethnicolr` also uses United States Census data, but also adds in data curated from Wikipedia in 2009. [@doi:10.1145/1557019.1557032]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`ethnicolr` also uses United States Census data, but also adds in data curated from Wikipedia in 2009 [@doi:10.1145/1557019.1557032].
```

Let's do citation inside period

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In addition to the United States Census data, `ethnicolr` also uses data curated from Wikipedia in 2009 [@doi:10.1145/1557019.1557032].
```
Avoid repetitive also's.

While ethnicolr overcomes some of the limitations of wru, its international representation is still limited.

> For instance, 76% of the names in ethnicolr’s Wikipedia dataset are European in origin, and the dataset contains substantially fewer Asian, African, and Middle Eastern names. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For instance, 76% of the names in ethnicolr’s Wikipedia dataset are European in origin, and the dataset contains remarkably fewer Asian, African, and Middle Eastern names compared to that of wru. 
```
is this what you mean? I tried to avoid using "substantially" twice in 3 sentences, but there may be a better adverb.

A number of the limitations of ethnicolr are related to the source data.
Since Wikipedia has grown substantially since 2009, we created an updated dataset and set of predictors based on the ethnicolr methodology, which are described below.

#### Constructing a Name-to-Nationality Dataset

> To generate a training dataset for nationality prediction, we scraped Wikipedia’s category of Living People (approximately 930,000 pages).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To generate a training dataset for nationality prediction, we scraped Wikipedia’s category of [Living People](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:Living_people) (approximately 930,000 pages).
```

This category is regularly curated and allowed us to avoid pages related to non-persons and to reflect a modern naming landscape.
For each Wikipedia page, we used two strategies to find a full birth name and nationality for that person.
First, we pulled information from the personal details sidebar; the information in this sidebar varied widely but usually contained a full name and a place of birth.
Second, in the body of the text of most English-language biographical Wikipedia pages, the first sentence usually begins with, for example, “John Edward Smith (born 1 January 1970) is an American novelist known for ...”
We used regular expressions to parse out the person’s name from this structure, as well as checking that the expression after “is a” matched a list of possible nationalities.

> Using a union of these strategies, we were able to define a name and nationality for 708,493 people via their Wikipedia pages with high fidelity.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Using a union of these strategies, we were able to define a name and nationality for 708,493 people via their Wikipedia pages.
```

Our Wikipedia-based process returned only a nationality or country of origin, which was more fine-grained than the broader regional patterns that we sought to examine among ISCB honorees and bioinformatics authors.

> We initially annotated based on continent, but after several iterations settled on the following categories: Hispanic (including Latin America and Iberia), African, Israeli, Muslim, SouthAsian, EastAsian, European (non-British, non-Iberian), and CelticEnglish (including United States, Canada, and Australia).

Reviewer 2: Was this categorization based on any existing resources that we should mention? A citation here could be helpful to help justify the categories.

> We make this dataset, which we term Wiki2019, available at <https://github.com/greenelab/wiki-nationality-estimate/master/data/annotated_names.tsv>.

Reviewer 2: At some point can we mention the month in 2019 the names were retrieved?

> #### Nationality Prediction with LSTM Neural Networks

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
#### Nationality Prediction with LSTM Neural Networks

```
I'm not 100% sure this needs a line break but I usually see one after headers.

> We trained a Long Short-term Memory (LSTM) neural network, the same kind of classifier used by the ethnicolr creators.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We trained a Long Short-term Memory (LSTM) neural network, the same kind of classifier used by ethnicolr.
```

> We trained the classifier to recognize patterns in the sequences of letters in a name to infer region of origin.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This classifier learned to recognize patterns in the sequences of letters in a name to infer region of origin.
```
Avoid "We trained" twice in a row.
